first draft deprecation EC endpoints (#1624)
codatio/codat-docs: blog/250703-deprecation-enh-cashflow-endpoints.md

---
title: "2026-07-10: Enhanced Cashflow Report: Deprecation of Legacy Endpoints"
date: "2025-07-03"
tags: ["Deprecation", "Assess", "Enhanced Cashflow"]
authors: ivasiutkova
---

> On **July 10, 2026**, we will deprecate our legacy Enhanced Cashflow endpoints following the release of the new version of the report - Categorized Bank Statement.

Author: Looks really good; I would just remove word 'Excel' as not all endpoints are excel

<!--truncate-->

Categorized Bank Statement report includes built-in orchestration for fetching required data from third-party integrations and provides webhook notifications when the report is ready.
This deprecation affects the following endpoints:

`POST /data/companies/{companyId}/assess/excel?reportType=enhancedCashFlow`

`GET  /data/companies/{companyId}/assess/excel?reportType=enhancedCashFlow`

`GET  /data/companies/{companyId}/assess/excel/download?reportType=enhancedCashFlow`

> _Only requests for the `enhancedCashFlow` report type will be affected. Other report types using Assess generation endpoints are unaffected._

Reviewer: ```suggestion
**Important:** Only requests specifying the `enhancedCashFlow` report type will be affected. Other report types generated via the these endpoints are not impacted by this change.
```

> Additionally, the following endpoint will also be impacted:

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Migrating to the new report generation framework also impacts the [**Get categorized bank statement**](/lending-api#/operations/get-categorized-bank-statement) endpoint:

```

`GET /companies/{companyId}/reports/enhancedCashFlow/transactions`

> Before using this endpoint, ensure the Enhanced Cashflow report has been fully completed. For instructions, refer to our [Migration guide](https://docs.codat.io/lending/features/enhanced-cash-flow-migration).

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Before using this endpoint, ensure the Enhanced Cashflow report has been successfully generated. For instructions, refer to our [Migration guide](https://docs.codat.io/lending/features/enhanced-cash-flow-migration).
```

## Action required

> To avoid disruption, update your integration to use the new Categorized Bank Statement report endpoints before July 10, 2026. Follow the steps in our [Migration guide](https://docs.codat.io/lending/features/enhanced-cash-flow-migration).

Reviewer: ```suggestion
To avoid disruption, update your integration to use the new [**Manage Reports**](/lending-api#/operations/generate-report) endpoints before July 10, 2026. For detailed, step-by-step instructions, refer to our [Migration guide](https://docs.codat.io/lending/features/enhanced-cash-flow-migration).
```

## Expected impact if no action is taken

> If your integration continues to rely on the deprecated endpoints after July 10, 2026, report generation for enhancedCashFlow will fail. 

Reviewer: ```suggestion
If your integration is not updated by **July 10, 2026**, all API calls to the deprecated `enhancedCashFlow` report type will fail. This will prevent the generation of these reports and may disrupt your application's functionality.
```

> :::note Get ahead
> 
> You can get ahead of this change by enabling it now in the [Portal](https://app.codat.io/developers/api-deprecations). Learn how to do that [here](https://docs.codat.io/configure/portal/developers), or read our [change policy](https://docs.codat.io/using-the-api/change-policy).
> 
> :::

Reviewer: ```suggestion
:::note Get ahead of the change

You can get ahead of this change by enabling he new Categorized Bank Statement report in the [Portal](https://app.codat.io/developers/api-deprecations). Learn how to do that [here](https://docs.codat.io/configure/portal/developers), or read our [change policy](https://docs.codat.io/using-the-api/change-policy).

:::
```
